[1] Colocation: Colocation patterns discovery is the process of finding the subsets of features that are frequently located together in the same geographic area.
Applications:
For example:, a mobile service provider may be interested in pattern 'todays sales' and 'nearby stores', to have location-sensitive advertisements, promotions etc.
Given different types of businesses colocation patterns {auto dealers, auto repaires} and {departmental stores, gift stores} are the colocation pattern.
Colocation applications in public safety, public health, transportation, environmental management?

[2] Spatial network activity summarization (SNAS): we are given a spatial network and a set of activities. and the goal is to find the k (k number of path) shortest path that summarizes the activities, findin a set of k shortest paths that maximizes the number of actibites on selected paths.
Applications:
This is applicable where observations occur along linear paths such as roadways, trains tracks etc.
For example, transportation planners and engineers may need to identify road segments/stretches that pose risks for pedestrians and require redisign; crime analysts may look for concentrations of crimes along certain streets to guide law enforcement; and hydrologists may try to summarize environmental changes on water resources to understand the behavior of river networks and lakes.

[3] Distribution of crime and distribution of accidents in large cities may be constrained by the transportation network structure. How to account for the network structure in the spatial dataset by SDM.
For example, in hotspot detection, spatial techniques do not consider the spatial network structure of the dataset (may not model graph properties, like one-way, connectivities, left-turns, etc). So, spatial network activites hotspot SDM porblem has a spatial network as a part of its input.
Applications: 
Finding high-crime density street discovery. In urban area many activities are centered about spatial network infrastructure (roads/highways). Activity reports such as crime logs may often use networ-based location refeerences (such as street address). Traditional SDM may not account a large crimes concntrations for network-based activities.
Crime prevention may focus on identifying subsets of ST networks with high activity level, understanding underlying causes in terms of network porperties, and designing network control policies. Correct statistics model is needed. Further research needed to identigy other interesting patterns within network dataset, such as partial segment of roads that are more internsting than other parts.
Predicting locations and discovering spatial outliers, colocation rules. and spatial clustering. Developing algorithms that model spatial and spatio-temporal autocorrelations and constraints. 
Mining of movement data involving groups of people, ideas, goods, and streaming data. For this any SDM method is influenced by the neighborhood method, hence, new computational algorithms and interest meausres that deal with the sensivity to spatial neighborhood size need to be defined. 
Methods are needed to validate the hypotheses generated by SDM algoriths as well as to ensure that the knowledge generated is actionable in the real world.

[3] The complexity of spatial data and implicit spatial relationships limits the usefulness of conventional data mining techniques for extracting spatial patterns.
Applications:
Organization that make decisions based on large spatial data sets: public health mapping and analysis for public safety, transportation, environmental science and management, economics, climatology, public policy, earth science, market research and analytics, public utilities and distribution, etc.

Application of Spatial Clustering: In epidemology for finding unusual groups of health-related events, and in detection of crime hot spots by police officers.

[4] Crime pattern analysis (CPA): Law enforcement agencies may seek to identify regions of sudden increase in crime activity (called crime outbreaks). Does this scalable and for new insightes like interaction between different crime types. 
Pattern like: In urban crime datasets analysis reveal that downtown bars frequently lead to assaults just after bar closing. 
Spatial frequent pattern mining (SFPM): a approach for Crime pattern analysis (CPA) and a type of CPA. 
The analysis of crime datasets with multiple crime types may reveal sudden increase in the activity of a subset of crime types in cetain areas. 
Regional Frequent Crime Pattern (RFCP): spatial representation of crime outbreaks involving multiple crime types, subsets of different crime types that cooccur frequently in certain areas of a spatial framework. 

[4]  Research needs: techniques for the detection of crime outbreaks along street networks and outbreak detection at multiple analysis scale. This provide insights to law enforcement analysts to identify possible patrolling destricts. Identifying frequent crime routes taken by a vast majority of offenders helps law enforcement make planned changes to their monitoring patterns. Hence, a route/street level summarization of crime outbreaks may be more intutive compared to a geometric summarization of outbreaks. 
Crime outbreak detection at multiple analysis scales: spatial neighborhood size, the results of the any anlysis are sensitive to the neighborhood size specified by the user. 
New techniques are needed that can perform Spatial Frequen Pattern Minign (SFPM) at multiple analysis scales. New research is also needed to explore the use of frequent patterrns such as CSTPs to drive models that can predict future crime. 

References:
1. A survey on spatial colocation patterns discovery from spatial datasets.
2. A k-main routes approach to spatial network activity summarization
3. Identifying patterns in spatial information: a survey os methods.
4. Crime pattern analysis: A Spatial frequent pattern mining approach